---
layout: post
title:  "Île-Tudy"
img: ile-tudy-IMG20220810140335.jpg
date:   2022-11-22 07:32:34 +0100
tags: walks food history
department: Finistere
address: "29980 Île-Tudy"
imgalt: The pleasure port
longitude: 47.84643840336839
latitude: -4.167807467313271
links:
 - source: "France Voyage: Île-Tudy"
   url: https://www.france-voyage.com/cities-towns/ile-tudy-8968.htm
 - source: "A taste of France: Île-Tudy"
   url: https://www.a-taste-of-france.com/ile-tudy.html
 - source: "Wikipedia (French)"
   url: https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%8Ele-Tudy

---
Île-Tudy is at the end of a narrow spit of land reaching across the entrance of a natural harbour. At the moment it's a "presqu'île" (a nearly island). When the sea levels rise as expected, it'll become a full island again.

It's one of those places that takes you back in time. The streets are narrow. Everything slows down a tad. And you begin to imagine what life was like when this was a place devoted to one thing: fish...

As you enter via the main route across the spit, you'll notice flower beds all along the road. On the left just after a right hand bend, there are a series of small streets with modern houses. At the end of each is a car park with direct access to the beach. And what a beach! It extends for miles - all the way to the Pointe de Combrit lighthouse. This is where the locals come for their weekend "pique-nique" - complete with tablecloths, cool boxes, plates of fromage and charcuterie, and, of course, du vin.

During the summer, there are often events taking place near the Centre Nautique (the sailing school) - like concerts, boule tournaments and sports.

Wander along the beach towards the South West - heading into town. You'll get to a boardwalk and from there just explore. On one side of you is the sea. Just 100m away on the other side of the spit, is a peaceful harbour.

Eventually, and you won't know how you got there, you'll find yourself in the main town centre, just by the ferry over to Loctudy on the other side of the harbour entrance.

Here are restaurants, bars, crêperies and souvenir shops. Everything you need to while away a pleasant couple of hours. At peak times be prepared to wait for a table though. It gets a little busy.

When you've finished, carry on exploring the maze of narrow streets and alleyways. Look out for the old lifeboat house, the watch tower and signs on the ground saying that "everything leads to the sea"...

Enjoy!
